----- JOURNAL -----
- 2024 October 19th -
More work was done on the first enemy, the horrible gelatinous cube.
When the player is in contact with the cube, a specific sound plays on loop and an acidic smoke comes off the player, to let them know something is happening.
When the cube comes into contact with a harmless animal, it plays a random squishy sound and the animal explodes into a cloud of smoke.
Random objects like skulls and hats float around in the cubes, to make them interesting. There are also random jelly things floating in them as well.
The horrible cubes are semi-random in their color, spawning as either of a shade of green or a yellow.
The cube sprites, being square with splotches in certain areas, are also randomly rotated at 90 degree increments before the cube is created.
The rotation of the cubes gives them some different looks, so they all aren't always the same.
The cubes expand and contract as they move, to make them more interesting.
A video of the cube can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T_nQF6z40qQ

- 2024 October 20th -
The magic object is now used as a parent object for all magical attacks, passing a magic damage value of 0, to be set for each specific spell.
The enemy object was created as a parent object for the horrible gelatinous cube, as well as any future enemies.
The cube has a health variable now, and when it takes too much damage, it disappears in a cloud of acidic smoke.
The wizard staff hits do anywhere between 0 and 2 damage, so that the player doesn't rely on them too much.

- 2024 October 25th -
Have been spending past few days brainstorming things to be added to the game.

- 2024 October 27 - 
Worked on game today and yesterday.
The wizard can now kill a horrible gelatinous cube, complete with splattery sound effects.
A video can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iJvEMA-lE7s&ab_channel=ForeignIntelligenceAlliance
Discovered that different instances of the cube all play the same sounds, which interferes with how the sounds are supposed to be played.
There is no problem when a single cube exists, but when multiple exists, the only cube that plays any sounds was the one most recently spawned.
Will need to use audio emitters in order to get the desired effect.
The cubes now also drop whatever item they were carrying in them onto the ground. Text of the item floats above it when it lands. The item slowly fades away.
Once the alpha is zero, the item will disappear. The text will disappear as well. 

----- THINGS TO DO -----
- ENEMIES -
Horrible Gelatinous Cube: 
>When the wizard is inside the cube, slow all movement (walking, falling, jumping) to make it harder to escape the horrible cube.
>Add just a little more splattery-ness when the cube dies. 
>Start using audio emitters so that when the player is next to a cube, it always plays the "gel walking" sound proportional to the distance from the player. 
>Use audio emitters for when the cube dies as well, or else the player will hear the death sound even if the cube is far away. 
>Use audio emitters for the sound of the player being eaten by the cube. 
>Remember to use audio emitters or else only one instance of an object will play the sounds that it is supposed to.
>Make the object floating in the cube disintegrate most of the time, but sometimes get left behind when the cube dies.
>Allow the player to interact with this object, and search it for items.
>Make sure to also flip horrible gelatinous cube sprites after rotating them, for more patterns.
>Create a horrible gelatinous cube spawning object, that creates horrible cubes depending on the number left and a time factor.
>When the cubes spawn, have them grow slowly as if oozing onto the scene, and make sure to have a sound effect for this.

Fat Ugly Rat:
>Make the rats randomly vary in color from black, to brown, to white.
>Make some of the rats have random splotches/spots of color on them. 
>Collect at least 5 sounds to randomly play when the rat attacks the player.
>Collect at least 5 sounds to randomly play while the rat wanders around.
>Collect at least 5 sounds to randomly play when the rats die.
>Create a sound emitter that follows the rat and plays these sounds. 
>Create an attack for the rat where it leaps forward, dealing damage and pushing the player backwards.
>Create an attack for the rat where it bites at the player, dealing higher damage and pushing the player backwards.
>Create an attack for the rat where it swipes twice at the player with its claws, dealing lesser damage with no pushing.
>Create a very rare attack where the rat stands up, pulls out a knife, and stabs the player, dealing moderate damage and pushback, because it is funny.
>Add a random and rare version of the Fat Ugly Rat called the Fat Adorable Rat, that is less ugly but still evil, because it is funny.

Lumbering Fish Thing:

Dreadful Amphibian: 

Alligator: 

Verminous Kobold:

Evil Shadow:

Mimic (Barrel):
>Have different quality scores for the mimic, randomly chosen (Cheaply Made Knockoff, High-Quality Imitation, etc.).

Glowing-Eyed Disease Horror:

Deadly Moldy Funk:

- PLAYER -
>Add an inheritable player object that includes heatlh, mana, endurance, defense, and other important characteristics.
>Create a player inventory that keeps track of all the items the player has.
>Create a menu screen for the inventory to be displayed, and to allow the user to organize items.
Health:
Mana:
Endurance:
Defense:
Inventory:
Speed:
Jump:


- DUNGEONS -
>Every environment/dungeon should have a difficulty modifier, that makes enemies stronger or weaker depending on the character level/area/other factors.
>Each dungeon must be procedurally and randomly generated. The length of the dungeon is randomly decided beforehand.
>After the player completes a dungeon, like a cave system, the player returns to the outside of the dungeon. The entrance will now take them to a new randomly generated dungeon.

Sewer:
>Make a gross procedurally generated sewer environment.
>Make yellowish grimey walls.
>
>Make random drips and oozes.
>Choose at least 7 random drip noises.
>Choose at least 7 random flowing water noises.
>Randomly spawn some enemies.
>Create random spawn point for the Horrible Gelatinous Cube.
>Create random spawn point for the Fat Ugly Rat.
>Create random spawn point for the Lumbering Fish Thing.
>Create random spawn point for the Dreadful Amphibian.
>Create random spawn point for the Alligator.
  - A flowing giant sewer pipe is where the Alligator spawns from. Sometimes immediately attacking, flying out and dealing damage, usually not (short delay before aggression towards player).
>Create random spawn point for the Verminous Kobold.
>Create random spawn point for the Evil Shadow.
>Create random spawn point for the Mimic (Barrel).

- MAGIC -
>Create 20 spells.
  - Create "Polymorph into Butterfly" spell that changes the player into a butterfly. After a puff of smoke, the player is a butterfly.
  - Create "Heal Booboo" spell that heals the player for a small amount of damage. After a yellowish/golden flash, the player glows a little and is healed.
  - Create "Become Barrel" spell, that changes the player into a barrel after a puff of smoke.
  - Create "Ice Shard" spell, this spell shoots a spike of ice that deals magic/ice damage, and slows the enemy.
  - Create "Volatile Vapor" spell, this spell highlights the player in green and surrounds them by a mist of poison, that deals damage over time to enemies.
>Start the player with a "spell crumpled napkin" that contains a single, random, probably useless low-level spell.
>Think about how to add a system that randomly generates spells, and assigns names based on characteristics.
>Think about randomly choosing spell type, damage, size, movement characteristics, and combining damage types.
>Think about how to add fire type magic and damage.
>Think about how to add ice type magic and damage.
>Think about how to add poison type magic and damage.
>Think about how to add polymorph spells (turn player into harmless animals, turn enemies into harmless animals).
>Think about how to add healing type magic and anti-damage.
>Think about spell targets. Self. Enemy. Aura. Area. Object. Projectile. Touch. Etc.

- ITEMS -
>Create wands that have a random number of charges, and that cast random, predetermined spells.
>The structure of the spell should decide the name of the wand.
>The wands should be rechargeable, by visiting a merchant or through some costly player method.
>Create rings, necklaces, belts, socks, that can equipped by the player.
>Allow for the enchantment of items, so that if they are equipped or carried, they give bonuses to the player.
>Make enchantments very rare and costly.
>Allow for the player to enchant their hats, robes, and staffs.
>Allow for the disenchanting of item, also make it very expensive. More expensive to remove specific effects while leaving others.

Wand of Wolf:
>Create a wand that the character can pick, make it look wolf related.
>The Wand of Wolf shoots a wolf in the direction that the character is pointing. The wolf charges forward, accompanied by barking.
>When the wolf comes into contact with an enemy or wall, it explodes into a shroud of chaotic smoke, dealing damage and with lots of barking, and then dealing area damage for a short amount of time.
>Make it so that randomly and rarely, the Wand of Wolf fires a chihuahua, because it is funny.

- NPCs -
Unpaid Intern:
>Create an unpaid intern character, a sort of invincible faux-enemy that the player can test magical attacks on.

Dorfen Traders:
>Make a wandering band of dwarf traders on a wagon. They can be interacted with, and items purchased from them. Food for healing, alcohol for mana.

- HARMLESS ANIMALS -
>Create rats that skitter back and forth, and have them spawn in gross places and underground.
>The rats should randomly play squeaking noises as they move around.

- FURNITURE -
>Create chairs that the wizard can sit down in.
>Create an orb object, and place it on a table next to a chair, and allow the player to ponder it and restore their mana.
>Play music while the orb is being pondered.
>Allow the player to stand up after pondering the orb for however long the wish.
>Automatically save the game when the orb is pondered.
>Create wooden barrels that can be searched. If a significant amount of damage is applied, have them shatter.
>Create gross wooden barrels to be placed in sewer/dank environments. Sometimes has items, is cover for mimics.

Environment:

----- THINGS DONE -----
- ENEMIES -
Horrible Gelatinous Cube: 
>Done 2024 October 27th. When the cube is killed, have a more dramatic smoke/explosion effect take place. (Added more smoke to cube death. Plan to add more effects.)
>Done 2024 October 27th. When the cube is killed, play a sound randomly from a list of gelatinous cube death noises. (Will probably add a few more death noises to the list of noises to choose from.)
>Done 2024 October 27th. When the cube is dying, play a melting animation. (Decided instead on having splattery objects created when the cube dies.)
